# CIL Management System Server

This is the server-side program of CIL Management System.

CIL Management System is an internal program for the Co-innovation Laboratory of Shandong University of Technology Computer Science and Technology college.

Related technologies:

* **Spring MVC** for web MVC
* **Spring Rest** for view object Restful presentation
* **Spring Security** for access control & authorization
* **Spring Session** for distributed session management
* **Redis+lettuce** for the memory storage of session
* **MyBatis**+**MySQL** for database persistence
* **Tomcat JDBC Pool** for database connection pooling
* **Activiti** for workflow
* **Apache POI** for import or export to Excel
* **Fast Json (made by Alibaba)** for Json parser
* **Gson (made by Google)** for Json-Object transition
* **JQuery** & **Ajax** for front-end & data transmission
* **JUnit** for test
* **Maven** for package management
* **Git** for versioning
* **Tomcat** as a web container

Some technologies that have been considered, but not used:

* **Spring Web flow**: has been replaced by **Activiti**
* **Shiro:** is not supporting to **OAuth2**, so it has been replaced by **Spring Security** in this program.
* **DBCP2:** Why do I use `Tomcat jdbc pool` to replace DBCP2?
  * **Commons DBCP is over 60 classes. `tomcat-jdbc-pool` core is 8 classes**, hence modifications for future requirement will require much less changes. This is all you need to run the connection pool itself. 
  * **Commons DBCP uses static interfaces**. This means you **have to use the right version for a given JRE version** or you may see `NoSuchMethodException` exceptions.
  * `Tomcat jdbc pool` is a Tomcat module, it **depends on Tomcat JULI**, a simplified logging framework used in Tomcat.
  * For more details, look at [the introduction part to The Tomcat JDBC Connection Pool](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/jdbc-pool.html)
* **Jedis:** is not thread-safe and [look at this article](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-session/issues/789), so it has been replaced by **lettuce** in this program
* **Redis connection pool:** As we all know, the lettuce will only create one connection per instance by default, [it supports connection pooling](https://github.com/lettuce-io/lettuce-core/wiki/Connection-Pooling), but is it necessary to have one for this program? no, the answer here is no. Redis user-space operations are **single-threaded** so there is **no need for throughput reasons to have more than one connection**. A single thread can execute about 10,000 Redis commands (`GET`, `SET`) per second. Using 6 to 8 threads this number rapidly goes up to 80kOps/sec to 100kOps/sec. For more details [look at this article from lettuce-core issues](https://github.com/lettuce-io/lettuce-core/issues/360)

Further development:

* **Spring HATEOAS** for creating REST representations that follow the HATEOAS principle
* **Spring Security for OAuth2** for OAuth2 authorization & get rid of the usage of session (related dependencies has been imported in current version)

> **Java is the engine then Spring is the fuel**.

## 0x00 Documents

You can find all of the document in the `docs` directory.

Design-of-Schema.md

> This document provides the design of database structure & the data dictionaries.

How-to-deploy.md

> The purpose of this file is pretty self-evident in its name. The method of deployment of the server-side program

json-API.md

> The Restful Json API document includes how to invoke it & the example input and output data.

Role-permission-list.md

> A series of table indicates the relationship between every-role and every-privilege in every sub-system.

System-Structure.md

> The server-side program system structure includes 3 sub-systems and a lot of functions in it.

Usage-of-Session-and-Cookie.md

> The usage of sessions and cookies. Convenient to follow up development.

Workflow.md

> How every function works. This file includes the workflow image of Activiti framework.

## 0x01 Versioning

### 0x00 Branches

**master:**

Master branch stores the current published version.

**dev:**

Dev branch used to follow up development progress. 

When some features development and test finished, merge it into master branch.

## 0x02 Directories structure

```
G:.
├─.idea # IDE's configuration files
│  ├─artifacts
│  ..OMITTED..
├─database # database structure and example data
├─docs # project relevant documents
├─src # code dicrectory
   └─main
       └─webapp
           └─WEB-INF
```

> Generated by `tree` command in Windows PowerShell
>
> Introduction was manually wrote after Hashtag(#)

