docs/Design-of-Schema.md, before:

### 0x00 Objects

The Objects we should manager in this program includes **personnel**, **resources**, **projects**, **project-teams**, **funding and expenditures**.

**Terms:**

| Terms | Comment                                  |
| ----- | ---------------------------------------- |
| GMT   | Greenwich Mean Time (Beijing time is GMT+8) |
|       |                                          |



### 0x01 Personnel management

**personnel table (t_personnel):**

| Name        | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example              |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| id          | INT          | PK   | member's id                              | 151105               |
| name        | VARCHAR(30)  |      | member's name                            | Jack Ma              |
| password    | CAHR(40)     |      | SHA-1 password hash (Uppercase Hex string) |                      |
| hash_salt   | CHAR(10)     |      | random string                            | sddfs54              |
| gender      | TINYINT      |      | 0 is male, 1 is female                   | 0                    |
| department  | INT          |      | for student that is class id, for teacher that is college id | 101                  |
| enroll_time | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he join the lab            | 2017-8-15            |
| exit_time   | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he exit the lab, 1970-1-1 will be set if he didn't retire | 2018-2-13            |
| birthday    | DATE         |      | when did he born                         | 1997-1-1             |
| email       | VARCHAR(30)  |      | E-mail address                           | test@test.com        |
| phone       | VARCHAR(20)  |      | phone number                             | 13512345678          |
| achievement | VARCHAR(400) |      | -                                        | XXX contest Champion |

> Password hash generate algorithm (for `password` column):
>
> SHA1(hash_salt+clear_password+hash_salt)
>
> Default hash_salt is `/HASHSALT/`
>
> Default password is `666666` 
>
> So default hash value:
>
> ```
> SHA1('/HASHSALT/666666/HASHSALT/') =>
> 'CD9477E503432CE42DA4D2FC0665863619F2993B'
> ```
> For security, even if you use the default password, **make sure the hash_salt randomly**, do it **in your application code**. The database only provide an example value.

class table (t_class):**

| Name    | Type        | key  | Comment               | Example       |
| ------- | ----------- | ---- | --------------------- | ------------- |
| id      | INT         | PK   | -                     | 101           |
| name    | VARCHAR(20) |      | -                     | Software-1505 |
| college | INT         |      | affiliated college id | 58            |

**college table (t_college):**

| Name | Type        | key  | Comment | Example                                 |
| ---- | ----------- | ---- | ------- | --------------------------------------- |
| id   | INT         | PK   | -       | 58                                      |
| name | VARCHAR(30) |      | -       | computer science and technology college |

### 0x02 Project & Team management

**project table (t_project):**

| Name             | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example                    |
| ---------------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| id               | INT          | PK   | -                                        | 1                          |
| topic            | VARCHAR(100) |      | -                                        | Some System Development    |
| description      | VARCHAR(400) |      |                                          | This system ...            |
| code_uri         | VARCHAR(400) |      | code's position, if have no codes, empty string will be set. Every URI occupies one single line. | GitHub URL                 |
| docs_uri         | VARCHAR(400) |      | documents position, if have no documents, empty string will be set. Every URI occupies one single line. | GitHub wiki                |
| leader           | INT          |      | leader id                                | 151105                     |
| discipline       | INT          |      | the bottom discipline id                 | 46                         |
| funding          | BIGINT       |      | measured in cent                         | 5000000                    |
| affiliation      | VARCHAR(200) |      | affiliated companies or schools          | Some company, Some college |
| application_date | DATE         |      | GMT                                      | 2018/1/1                   |
| start_date       | DATE         |      | GMT                                      | 2018/2/14                  |
| deadline         | DATE         |      | GMT                                      | 2018/5/1                   |

**project team table (t_team):**

| Name        | Type         | key  | Comment   | Example      |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---- | --------- | ------------ |
| id          | INT          | PK   | team id   | 1            |
| leader      | INT          |      | leader id | 151105       |
| title       | VARCHAR(30)  |      | team name | C++ team     |
| description | VARCHAR(300) |      | -         | We ...       |
| slogan      | VARCHAR(50)  |      | -         | Attitude ... |

> All of the lab persons contributes a big team called "CIL home"

**team-personnel table (t_team_personnel):**

| Name      | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example      |
| --------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| id        | INT          | PK   | independent id                           | 1            |
| team_id   | INT          |      | team id                                  | 3            |
| person_id | INT          |      | person id                                | 2            |
| position  | TINYINT      |      | 0: leader; 1: deputy leader; 2: teacher; 3: developer; 4: designer; 5: tester; 6: operation and maintenance; 7: artist; 8: DBA; 9: others | 0            |
| jobs      | VARCHAR(300) |      | work content                             | XXX features |

**team-project table (t_team_project):**

| Name       | Type | key  | Comment        | Example |
| ---------- | ---- | ---- | -------------- | ------- |
| id         | INT  | PK   | independent id | 1       |
| team_id    | INT  |      | -              | 3       |
| project_id | INT  |      | -              | 1       |

**funding's expenditures table (t_expenditure):**

| Name         | Type         | key  | Comment                               | Example       |
| ------------ | ------------ | ---- | ------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| id           | INT          | PK   | -                                     | 1             |
| flow         | TINYINT      |      | 1: income; -1: outcome                | 1             |
| amount       | BIGINT       |      | measure in cent                       | 5000          |
| balance      | BIGINT       |      | funding balance                       | 50000         |
| project_id   | INT          |      | affiliated project id                 | 1             |
| note         | VARCHAR(100) |      | description                           | buy something |
| revenue_date | DATE         |      | when did you spend or earn this money | 2018-2-1      |

**academic subjects' table (t_academic_subject):**

| Name   | Type        | key  | Comment                                  | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | ------- |
| id     | INT         | PK   | -                                        | 1       |
| code   | VARCHAR(15) |      | major code                               | 020301K |
| name   | VARCHAR(50) |      | major name                               | 金融学     |
| parent | INT         |      | parent id, if it have no parent, 0 will be set. | 2       |
| level  | TINYINT     |      | 0 is *学科门类*, 1 is *一级学科*, 2 is *二级学科*  and so on | 2       |

> The code column must be a string due to some disciplines' code has character 'T' (*特设专业*) or 'K' (*国家控制布点专业*).

> This table comply with China's current academic system *学位授予和人才培养学科目录(教育部 学位[2009] 10号)*
>
> There is **no** function in this program to modify this table's content.

### 0x03 Resource & Usage management

**resources' type table (t_resource_type):**

| Name        | Type         | key  | Comment       | Example          |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| id          | INT          | PK   | -             | 1                |
| name        | VARCHAR(100) |      | -             | Dell Laptop X123 |
| description | VARCHAR(300) |      | detail        | i7-4710MQ, ...   |
| disposable  | TINYINT      |      | 0: no, 1: yes | 1                |

**resource table (t_resource):**

| Name         | Type   | key  | Comment                | Example |
| ------------ | ------ | ---- | ---------------------- | ------- |
| id           | INT    | PK   | -                      | 1       |
| type_id      | INT    |      | type                   | 2       |
| purchaser_id | INT    |      | who bought it          | 151105  |
| unit_price   | BIGINT |      | unit price at purchase | 50000   |
| remaining    | INT    |      | remaining amount       | 5       |
| quantity     | INT    |      | all quantity           | 6       |

> If this resource is disposable, quantity equals to remaining, if not remaining equals to quantity subtract lending quantity

**resource usage table (t_resource_usage):**

| Name         | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example        |
| ------------ | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| id           | INT          | PK   | -                                        | 1              |
| resource_id  | INT          |      | -                                        | 2              |
| user_id      | INT          |      | who use it                               | 151105         |
| usage_amount | INT          |      | how many of they use                     | 5              |
| start_date   | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he use it                  | 2018-2-1       |
| end_date     | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he return it, 1970-1-1 will be set when it still lending or it's disposable | 1970-1-1       |
| purpose      | VARCHAR(200) |      | why did he use it                        | compose theory |

Commit message:

MODIFY: add identify column to t_personnel table for the permission check at Sign-in, add some json-API designs.

docs/Design-of-Schema.md, after:

### 0x00 Objects

The Objects we should manager in this program includes **personnel**, **resources**, **projects**, **project-teams**, **funding and expenditures**.

**Terms:**

| Terms | Comment                                  |
| ----- | ---------------------------------------- |
| GMT   | Greenwich Mean Time (Beijing time is GMT+8) |
|       |                                          |



### 0x01 Personnel management

**personnel table (t_personnel):**

| Name        | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example              |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| id          | INT          | PK   | school id                                | 151105               |
| name        | VARCHAR(30)  |      | member's name                            | Jack Ma              |
| password    | CAHR(40)     |      | SHA-1 password hash (Uppercase Hex string) |                      |
| hash_salt   | CHAR(10)     |      | random string                            | sddfs54              |
| gender      | TINYINT      |      | 0 is male, 1 is female                   | 0                    |
| identify    | TINYINT      |      | 0 is student, 1 is teacher, 2 is administer | 0                    |
| department  | INT          |      | for student that is class id, for teacher that is college id | 101                  |
| enroll_time | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he join the lab            | 2017-8-15            |
| exit_time   | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he exit the lab, 1970-1-1 will be set if he didn't retire | 2018-2-13            |
| birthday    | DATE         |      | when did he born                         | 1997-1-1             |
| email       | VARCHAR(30)  |      | E-mail address                           | test@test.com        |
| phone       | VARCHAR(20)  |      | phone number                             | 13512345678          |
| achievement | VARCHAR(400) |      | -                                        | XXX contest Champion |

> Password hash generate algorithm (for `password` column):
>
> SHA1(hash_salt+clear_password+hash_salt)
>
> Default hash_salt is `/HASHSALT/`
>
> Default password is `666666` 
>
> So default hash value:
>
> ```
> SHA1('/HASHSALT/666666/HASHSALT/') =>
> 'CD9477E503432CE42DA4D2FC0665863619F2993B'
> ```
> For security, even if you use the default password, **make sure the hash_salt randomly**, do it **in your application code**. The database only provide an example value.

**class table (t_class):**

| Name    | Type        | key  | Comment               | Example       |
| ------- | ----------- | ---- | --------------------- | ------------- |
| id      | INT         | PK   | -                     | 101           |
| name    | VARCHAR(20) |      | -                     | Software-1505 |
| college | INT         |      | affiliated college id | 58            |

**college table (t_college):**

| Name | Type        | key  | Comment | Example                                 |
| ---- | ----------- | ---- | ------- | --------------------------------------- |
| id   | INT         | PK   | -       | 58                                      |
| name | VARCHAR(30) |      | -       | computer science and technology college |

### 0x02 Project & Team management

**project table (t_project):**

| Name             | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example                    |
| ---------------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| id               | INT          | PK   | -                                        | 1                          |
| topic            | VARCHAR(100) |      | -                                        | Some System Development    |
| description      | VARCHAR(400) |      |                                          | This system ...            |
| code_uri         | VARCHAR(400) |      | code's position, if have no codes, empty string will be set. Every URI occupies one single line. | GitHub URL                 |
| docs_uri         | VARCHAR(400) |      | documents position, if have no documents, empty string will be set. Every URI occupies one single line. | GitHub wiki                |
| leader           | INT          |      | leader id                                | 151105                     |
| discipline       | INT          |      | the bottom discipline id                 | 46                         |
| funding          | BIGINT       |      | measured in cent                         | 5000000                    |
| affiliation      | VARCHAR(200) |      | affiliated companies or schools          | Some company, Some college |
| application_date | DATE         |      | GMT                                      | 2018/1/1                   |
| start_date       | DATE         |      | GMT                                      | 2018/2/14                  |
| deadline         | DATE         |      | GMT                                      | 2018/5/1                   |

**project team table (t_team):**

| Name        | Type         | key  | Comment   | Example      |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---- | --------- | ------------ |
| id          | INT          | PK   | team id   | 1            |
| leader      | INT          |      | leader id | 151105       |
| title       | VARCHAR(30)  |      | team name | C++ team     |
| description | VARCHAR(300) |      | -         | We ...       |
| slogan      | VARCHAR(50)  |      | -         | Attitude ... |

> All of the lab persons contributes a big team called "CIL home"

**team-personnel table (t_team_personnel):**

| Name      | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example      |
| --------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| id        | INT          | PK   | independent id                           | 1            |
| team_id   | INT          |      | team id                                  | 3            |
| person_id | INT          |      | person id                                | 2            |
| position  | TINYINT      |      | 0: leader; 1: deputy leader; 2: teacher; 3: developer; 4: designer; 5: tester; 6: operation and maintenance; 7: artist; 8: DBA; 9: others | 0            |
| jobs      | VARCHAR(300) |      | work content                             | XXX features |

**team-project table (t_team_project):**

| Name       | Type | key  | Comment        | Example |
| ---------- | ---- | ---- | -------------- | ------- |
| id         | INT  | PK   | independent id | 1       |
| team_id    | INT  |      | -              | 3       |
| project_id | INT  |      | -              | 1       |

**funding's expenditures table (t_expenditure):**

| Name         | Type         | key  | Comment                               | Example       |
| ------------ | ------------ | ---- | ------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| id           | INT          | PK   | -                                     | 1             |
| flow         | TINYINT      |      | 1: income; -1: outcome                | 1             |
| amount       | BIGINT       |      | measure in cent                       | 5000          |
| balance      | BIGINT       |      | funding balance                       | 50000         |
| project_id   | INT          |      | affiliated project id                 | 1             |
| note         | VARCHAR(100) |      | description                           | buy something |
| revenue_date | DATE         |      | when did you spend or earn this money | 2018-2-1      |

**academic subjects' table (t_academic_subject):**

| Name   | Type        | key  | Comment                                  | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | ------- |
| id     | INT         | PK   | -                                        | 1       |
| code   | VARCHAR(15) |      | major code                               | 020301K |
| name   | VARCHAR(50) |      | major name                               | 金融学     |
| parent | INT         |      | parent id, if it have no parent, 0 will be set. | 2       |
| level  | TINYINT     |      | 0 is *学科门类*, 1 is *一级学科*, 2 is *二级学科*  and so on | 2       |

> The code column must be a string due to some disciplines' code has character 'T' (*特设专业*) or 'K' (*国家控制布点专业*).

> This table comply with China's current academic system *学位授予和人才培养学科目录(教育部 学位[2009] 10号)*
>
> There is **no** function in this program to modify this table's content.

### 0x03 Resource & Usage management

**resources' type table (t_resource_type):**

| Name        | Type         | key  | Comment       | Example          |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| id          | INT          | PK   | -             | 1                |
| name        | VARCHAR(100) |      | -             | Dell Laptop X123 |
| description | VARCHAR(300) |      | detail        | i7-4710MQ, ...   |
| disposable  | TINYINT      |      | 0: no, 1: yes | 1                |

**resource table (t_resource):**

| Name         | Type   | key  | Comment                | Example |
| ------------ | ------ | ---- | ---------------------- | ------- |
| id           | INT    | PK   | -                      | 1       |
| type_id      | INT    |      | type                   | 2       |
| purchaser_id | INT    |      | who bought it          | 151105  |
| unit_price   | BIGINT |      | unit price at purchase | 50000   |
| remaining    | INT    |      | remaining amount       | 5       |
| quantity     | INT    |      | all quantity           | 6       |

> If this resource is disposable, quantity equals to remaining, if not remaining equals to quantity subtract lending quantity

**resource usage table (t_resource_usage):**

| Name         | Type         | key  | Comment                                  | Example        |
| ------------ | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| id           | INT          | PK   | -                                        | 1              |
| resource_id  | INT          |      | -                                        | 2              |
| user_id      | INT          |      | who use it                               | 151105         |
| usage_amount | INT          |      | how many of they use                     | 5              |
| start_date   | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he use it                  | 2018-2-1       |
| end_date     | DATE         |      | GMT, when did he return it, 1970-1-1 will be set when it still lending or it's disposable | 1970-1-1       |
| purpose      | VARCHAR(200) |      | why did he use it                        | compose theory |
