docs/Role-permission-list.md, before:

### 0x00 Introduction

There are 4 roles in this program, **Administer**, **Teacher**, **Project team leader (student)** and **normal member (student)** respectively.



### 0x01 Implement Algorithms

Look at the design of RBAC table in document `Design-of-Schema`

#### 0x00 Password Hash Algorithm

```
SHA1(hash_salt+clear_password+hash_salt)
```

Default hash_salt is `/HASHSALT/`

Default password is `666666` 

So default hash value:

```
SHA1('/HASHSALT/666666/HASHSALT/') =>
'CD9477E503432CE42DA4D2FC0665863619F2993B'
```

For security, even if you use the default password, **make sure the hash_salt randomly**, do it **in your application code**. The database only provide an example value.

#### 0x01 Access Control Algorithm

Here, we **imitate **the design of **[Linux files permission in numeric mode](https://www.pluralsight.com/blog/it-ops/linux-file-permissions).**

The permissions are broken into **3** sections (attention: Linux is 4).

> Attention: the meaning of the three sections are **different** from it in Linux 

The first section is **for his own**. 

The second section is **for his group (each of the groups you participate in)**.

The third section is **for other users**.

- 0, No permission
- 1, for reserve,  **for future**, do **NOT** use it before it has exact meanings
- 2, write
- 4, read

You basically **add up** the numbers depending on the level of permission you want to give.

**Appointment**:

* for some **one-sided** operations like sign in:
  the first section is set to **6 means you can do**, set to **0 means you can NOT do**
  **other value are meaningless**.
  **the second & third section are set to 0**.
* ​

**TL;DR**

for example, the permission control of user's personal information

the value 640 means:

- 6: 4+2 you can read & modify your own personal information
- 4: you can only read the user's info in your project team (each of the groups you participate in)
- 0: you have no permission for others personal information

the value 444 means:

* 4: you can read your own personal information
* 4: you can read the member's information of each group you participate in
* 4: you can read other's information

for another example, sign in

Sign in is a one-sided operation, **we can see it as an operation for sessions**, so if we have permission to sign in, equals we have the permission of reading & writing for the session, so the value 600 means you can sign in, the value 000 means you can not sign in.

### 0x02 Personnel Management

|           | Admin | Teacher | Team leader | Member |
| --------- | :---: | :-----: | :---------: | :----: |
| Sign in   |  600  |   600   |     600     |  600   |
| account   |  666  |   444   |     444     |  444   |
| user info |  666  |   664   |     664     |  644   |
| password  |  622  |   600   |     600     |  600   |

### 0x03 Project & Team Management

|                     | Admin | Teacher |    Team leader    | Member |
| ------------------- | :---: | :-----: | :---------------: | :----: |
| add projects        |   √   |    √    |                   |        |
| delete projects     |   √   |    √    |                   |        |
| modify project info |   √   |    √    | Only your project |        |
| query project info  |   √   |    √    |         √         |   √    |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |



### 0x04 Resource & Usage Management

Commit message:

MODIFY: password hash algorithm to BCrypto, database structure to fit this hash result

docs/Role-permission-list.md, after:

### 0x00 Introduction

There are 4 roles in this program, **Administer**, **Teacher**, **Project team leader (student)** and **normal member (student)** respectively.



### 0x01 Implement Algorithms

Look at the design of RBAC table in document `Design-of-Schema`

#### 0x00 Password Hash Algorithm

According to [CWE-257](http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/257.html) & [Securing Web Application Technologies[SWAT] Checklist](https://software-security.sans.org/resources/swat), We should use secure hashing techniques with strong algorithms like PBKDF2, bcrypt, or SHA-512, and SHA1, SHA256, and SHA512 are all **fast hashes** and are **bad for passwords**. SCRYPT and BCRYPT are both a *slow hash* and are good for passwords. Always use slow hashes, never fast hashes.

So, we use **BCrypt** algorithm with **11 rounds hash strength** to hash password here.

> **Deprecated:**
>
> This algorithm only existed in initial design and deprecated later.
>
> ```
> SHA1(hash_salt+clear_password+hash_salt)
> ```
>
> Default hash_salt is `/HASHSALT/`
>
> Default password is `666666` 
>
> So default hash value:
>
> ```
> SHA1('/HASHSALT/666666/HASHSALT/') =>
> 'CD9477E503432CE42DA4D2FC0665863619F2993B'
> ```
>
> For security, even if you use the default password, **make sure the hash_salt randomly**, do it **in your application code**. The database only provide an example value.

#### 0x01 Access Control Algorithm

Here, we **imitate **the design of **[Linux files permission in numeric mode](https://www.pluralsight.com/blog/it-ops/linux-file-permissions).**

The permissions are broken into **3** sections (attention: Linux is 4).

> Attention: the meaning of the three sections are **different** from it in Linux 

The first section is **for his own**. 

The second section is **for his group (each of the groups you participate in)**.

The third section is **for other users**.

- 0, No permission
- 1, for reserve,  **for future**, do **NOT** use it before it has exact meanings
- 2, write
- 4, read

You basically **add up** the numbers depending on the level of permission you want to give.

**Appointment**:

* for some **one-sided** operations like sign in:
  the first section is set to **6 means you can do**, set to **0 means you can NOT do**
  **other value are meaningless**.
  **the second & third section are set to 0**.
* ​

**TL;DR**

for example, the permission control of user's personal information

the value 640 means:

- 6: 4+2 you can read & modify your own personal information
- 4: you can only read the user's info in your project team (each of the groups you participate in)
- 0: you have no permission for others personal information

the value 444 means:

* 4: you can read your own personal information
* 4: you can read the member's information of each group you participate in
* 4: you can read other's information

for another example, sign in

Sign in is a one-sided operation, **we can see it as an operation for sessions**, so if we have permission to sign in, equals we have the permission of reading & writing for the session, so the value 600 means you can sign in, the value 000 means you can not sign in.

### 0x02 Personnel Management

|           | Admin | Teacher | Team leader | Member |
| --------- | :---: | :-----: | :---------: | :----: |
| Sign in   |  600  |   600   |     600     |  600   |
| account   |  666  |   444   |     444     |  444   |
| user info |  666  |   664   |     664     |  644   |
| password  |  622  |   600   |     600     |  600   |

### 0x03 Project & Team Management

|                     | Admin | Teacher |    Team leader    | Member |
| ------------------- | :---: | :-----: | :---------------: | :----: |
| add projects        |   √   |    √    |                   |        |
| delete projects     |   √   |    √    |                   |        |
| modify project info |   √   |    √    | Only your project |        |
| query project info  |   √   |    √    |         √         |   √    |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |
|                     |       |         |                   |        |



### 0x04 Resource & Usage Management
